#+BEGIN_COMMENT
(org-org-export-to-org)
#+END_COMMENT

* Examples

These examples should have everything you need (sample data, etc.) so
that you can run them from this directory simply with 

#+BEGIN_SRC shell
bash example-elasticsearch-1.sh
#+END_SRC

for instance. If you get a message saying =shp2nosql= is not found,
remember to add the =shp2nosql/bin= directory to your path.

** Elasticsearch
This first example indexes a shapefile of U.S. States (=-f state=
option/argument) into an Elasticsearch index called =us_states= with
document type =state=. The =-R= flag removes the index if it already
exists: 

#+INCLUDE: "./example-elasticsearch-1.sh" src shell

This second example indexes a shapefile of census tracts (=-f tract=
option/argument) in the state of Massachusetts (fips code =25=) into
an Elasticsearch index called =ma_tracts= with document type =tract=.
The =-R= flag removes the index if it already exists:

#+INCLUDE: "./example-elasticsearch-2.sh" src shell

This example is organized a bit differently but likely represents how
you will actually use the tool (does anyone use backticked multi-line
comments when using command line tools outside of creating
documentation?). It adds two new elements that the previous examples
do not have: the =-e= option which indicates that the =exbulk= utility
will be used to take advantage of parallel processing for indexing
(use the =top= command while this is running to see your CPU usage
really climb), and the =-l= option which indicates that a local file
will be indexed (instead of one from the U.S. Census). Neither of
these options utilize arguments. Instead of =state= or =tract= being
indicated with the =-f= option, the path to the shapefile is used
instead. This path need not be absolute, though it's a good idea to
enclose it in quotes:

#+INCLUDE: "./example-elasticsearch-3.sh" src shell

** MongoDb

This example is the MongoDB analog of the first Elasticsearch example.
Note that the last two options are different. MongoDB uses databases
(hence =-D=) as opposed to indexes (=-i=) and collections (hence =-c=)
as opposed to document types (=-t=).

#+INCLUDE: "./example-mongodb-1.sh" src shell

This last example utilizes a unique feature: the designation of
multiple files for inserting. This is indicated by the =-m= option
(with no argument) while the user designates the input files with
=-f=. When the =-m= option is used, =-f= expects a directory with
shapefiles in that directory. Only files with the extension =.shp=
will be indexed. Other files can be present in the directory. 

#+INCLUDE: "./example-mongodb-2.sh" src shell
